docs/core/core_opt_convex.md, before:

## Model Solvers

Model solvers are implementations which either solve for the parameters/coefficients which determine the prediction of a model. Below is a list of all model solvers currently implemented, they are all sub-classes/subtraits of the top level optimization API. Refer to the [wiki page](https://github.com/mandar2812/DynaML/wiki/Optimization-%26-Model-Selection) on optimizers for more details on extending the API and writing your own optimizers.

### Gradient Descent

The bread and butter of any machine learning framework, the ```GradientDescent``` class in the ```io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization``` package provides gradient based optimization primitives for solving optimization problems of the form.

$$
\begin{equation}
    f(w) :=
    \lambda\, R(w) +
    \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n L(w;x_k,y_k)
    \label{eq:regPrimal}
    \ .
\end{equation}
$$

#### Gradients


Name | Class | Equation
------------ | ------------- | -------------
Logistic Gradient | ```LogisticGradient``` | $L = \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n \log(1+\exp( -y_k w^T x_k)), y_k \in \{-1, +1\}$
Least Squares Gradient | ```LeastSquaresGradient``` | $L = \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n \|w^{T} \cdot x_k - y_k\|^2$



#### Updaters

Name | Class | Equation
------------ | ------------- | -------------
$L_1$ Updater | ```L1Updater```| $R = \|\|w\|\|_1$
$L_2$ Updater | ```SquaredL2Updater``` | $R = \frac{1}{2} \|\|w\|\|^2$
BFGS Updater      | ```SimpleBFGSUpdater``` |


```scala
val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val num_points = data.length
val initial_params: DenseVector[Double] = ...
val optimizer = new GradientDescent(
	new LogisticGradient,
	new SquaredL2Updater
)
val params = optimizer.setRegParam(0.002).optimize(
  num_points, data, initial_params)
```



### Quasi-Newton (BFGS)

The _Broydon-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno_ (BFGS) is a Quasi-Newton based second order optimization method. To calculate an update to the parameters, it requires calculation of the inverse _Hessian_ $\mathit{H}^{-1}$ as well as the gradient at each iteration.

```scala
val optimizer = QuasiNewtonOptimizer(
  new LeastSquaresGradient,
  new SimpleBFGSUpdater)

val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val num_points = data.length
val initial_params: DenseVector[Double] = ...

val params = optimizer.setRegParam(0.002).optimize(
  num_points, data, initial_params)
```


### Regularized Least Squares

This subroutine solves the regularized least squares optimization problem as shown below.

$$
\begin{equation}
	\min_{w} \ \mathcal{J}_{P}(w) = \frac{1}{2} \gamma \ w^Tw + \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} (y_k - w^T \varphi(x_k))^2
\end{equation}
$$


```scala
val num_dim = ...
val designMatrix: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...
val response: DenseVector[Double] = ...

val optimizer = new RegularizedLSSolver()


val x = optimizer.setRegParam(0.05).optimize(
  designMatrix.nrow, (designMatrix, response),
  DenseVector.ones[Double](num_dim))
```

### Back propagation with Momentum

This is the most common learning methods for supervised training of feed forward neural networks, the edge weights are adjusted using the _generalized delta rule_.

```scala
val data: Seq[(DenseVector[Double], DenseVector[Double])] = _

//Input, Hidden, Output
val num_units_by_layer = Seq(5, 8, 3)
val acts = Seq(VectorSigmoid, VectorTansig)
val breezeStackFactory = NeuralStackFactory(num_units_by_layer)(acts)

//Random variable which samples layer weights
val stackInitializer = GenericFFNeuralNet.getWeightInitializer(
  num_units_by_layer
)

val opt_backprop = new FFBackProp(breezeStackFactory)

val learned_stack = opt_backprop.optimize(
  data.length, data,
  stackInitializer.draw)
```


!!! warning "Deprecated back propagation API"

    ```scala  
    val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], DenseVector[Double])] = ...

    val initParam = FFNeuralGraph(num_inputs = data.head._1.length,
	     num_outputs = data.head._2.length,
	     hidden_layers = 1, List("logsig", "linear"),
	     List(5))

    val optimizer = new BackPropogation()
	     .setNumIterations(100)
	     .setStepSize(0.01)

    val newparams = optimizer.optimize(data.length, data, initParam)
    ```

### Conjugate Gradient

The conjugate gradient method is used to solve linear systems of the form $Ax = b$ where $A$ is a symmetric positive definite matrix.

```scala
val num_dim = ...
val A: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...
val b: DenseVector[Double] = ...

///Solves A.x = b
val x = ConjugateGradient.runCG(A, b,
	DenseVector.ones[Double](num_dim),
	epsilon = 0.005, MAX_ITERATIONS = 50)
```

### Dual LSSVM Solver

The LSSVM solver solves the linear program that results from the application of the _Karush, Kuhn Tucker_ conditions on the LSSVM optimization problem.

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & 1^\intercal_v   \\ \hline
   1_v & K + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   y  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$


```scala
val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...

val kernelMatrix: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...

val initParam =  DenseVector.ones[Double](num_points+1)

val optimizer =	new LSSVMLinearSolver()

val alpha = optimizer.optimize(num_points,
	(kernelMatrix, DenseVector(data.map(_._2).toArray)),
	initParam)
```

### Committee Model Solver

The committee model solver aims to find the optimum values of weights applied to the predictions of a set of base models. The weights are calculated as follows.

$$
\alpha = \frac{C^{-1} \overrightarrow{1}}{\overrightarrow{1}^T C^{-1} \overrightarrow{1}}
$$

Where $C$ is the sample correlation matrix of errors for all combinations of the base models calculated on the training data.

```scala
val optimizer= new CommitteeModelSolver()
//Data Structure containing for each training point the following couple
//(predictions from base models as a vector, actual target)
val predictionsTargets: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val params = optimizer.optimize(num_points,
	predictionsTargets,
	DenseVector.ones[Double](num_of_models))
```

Commit message:

Added links to scala doc convex opt page

docs/core/core_opt_convex.md, after:

## Model Solvers

Model solvers are implementations which either solve for the parameters/coefficients which determine the prediction of a model. Below is a list of all model solvers currently implemented, they are all sub-classes/subtraits of the top level optimization API. Refer to the [wiki page](https://github.com/mandar2812/DynaML/wiki/Optimization-%26-Model-Selection) on optimizers for more details on extending the API and writing your own optimizers.

### Gradient Descent

The bread and butter of any machine learning framework, the [`#!scala GradientDescent`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.GradientDescent) class in the [`#!scala dynaml.optimization`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.package) package provides gradient based optimization primitives for solving optimization problems of the form.

$$
\begin{equation}
    f(w) :=
    \lambda\, R(w) +
    \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n L(w;x_k,y_k)
    \label{eq:regPrimal}
    \ .
\end{equation}
$$

#### Gradients


Name | Class | Equation
------------ | ------------- | -------------
Logistic Gradient | [`#!scala LogisticGradient`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.LogisticGradient) | $L = \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n \log(1+\exp( -y_k w^T x_k)), y_k \in \{-1, +1\}$
Least Squares Gradient | [`#!scala LeastSquaresGradient`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.LeastSquaresGradient) | $L = \frac1n \sum_{k=1}^n \|w^{T} \cdot x_k - y_k\|^2$



#### Updaters

Name | Class | Equation
------------ | ------------- | -------------
$L_1$ Updater | [`#!scala L1Updater`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.L1Updater)| $R = \|\|w\|\|_{1}$
$L_2$ Updater | [`#!scala SquaredL2Updater`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.SquaredL2Updater) | $R = \frac{1}{2} \|\|w\|\|^2$
BFGS Updater      | [`#!scala SimpleBFGSUpdater`](https://transcendent-ai-labs.github.io/api_docs/DynaML/recent/dynaml-core/index.html#io.github.mandar2812.dynaml.optimization.SimpleBFGSUpdater) |


```scala
val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val num_points = data.length
val initial_params: DenseVector[Double] = ...
val optimizer = new GradientDescent(
	new LogisticGradient,
	new SquaredL2Updater
)
val params = optimizer.setRegParam(0.002).optimize(
  num_points, data, initial_params)
```



### Quasi-Newton (BFGS)

The _Broydon-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno_ (BFGS) is a Quasi-Newton based second order optimization method. To calculate an update to the parameters, it requires calculation of the inverse _Hessian_ $\mathit{H}^{-1}$ as well as the gradient at each iteration.

```scala
val optimizer = QuasiNewtonOptimizer(
  new LeastSquaresGradient,
  new SimpleBFGSUpdater)

val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val num_points = data.length
val initial_params: DenseVector[Double] = ...

val params = optimizer.setRegParam(0.002).optimize(
  num_points, data, initial_params)
```


### Regularized Least Squares

This subroutine solves the regularized least squares optimization problem as shown below.

$$
\begin{equation}
	\min_{w} \ \mathcal{J}_{P}(w) = \frac{1}{2} \gamma \ w^Tw + \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} (y_k - w^T \varphi(x_k))^2
\end{equation}
$$


```scala
val num_dim = ...
val designMatrix: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...
val response: DenseVector[Double] = ...

val optimizer = new RegularizedLSSolver()


val x = optimizer.setRegParam(0.05).optimize(
  designMatrix.nrow, (designMatrix, response),
  DenseVector.ones[Double](num_dim))
```

### Back propagation with Momentum

This is the most common learning methods for supervised training of feed forward neural networks, the edge weights are adjusted using the _generalized delta rule_.

```scala
val data: Seq[(DenseVector[Double], DenseVector[Double])] = _

//Input, Hidden, Output
val num_units_by_layer = Seq(5, 8, 3)
val acts = Seq(VectorSigmoid, VectorTansig)
val breezeStackFactory = NeuralStackFactory(num_units_by_layer)(acts)

//Random variable which samples layer weights
val stackInitializer = GenericFFNeuralNet.getWeightInitializer(
  num_units_by_layer
)

val opt_backprop = new FFBackProp(breezeStackFactory)

val learned_stack = opt_backprop.optimize(
  data.length, data,
  stackInitializer.draw)
```


!!! warning "Deprecated back propagation API"

    ```scala  
    val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], DenseVector[Double])] = ...

    val initParam = FFNeuralGraph(num_inputs = data.head._1.length,
	     num_outputs = data.head._2.length,
	     hidden_layers = 1, List("logsig", "linear"),
	     List(5))

    val optimizer = new BackPropogation()
	     .setNumIterations(100)
	     .setStepSize(0.01)

    val newparams = optimizer.optimize(data.length, data, initParam)
    ```

### Conjugate Gradient

The conjugate gradient method is used to solve linear systems of the form $Ax = b$ where $A$ is a symmetric positive definite matrix.

```scala
val num_dim = ...
val A: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...
val b: DenseVector[Double] = ...

///Solves A.x = b
val x = ConjugateGradient.runCG(A, b,
	DenseVector.ones[Double](num_dim),
	epsilon = 0.005, MAX_ITERATIONS = 50)
```

### Dual LSSVM Solver

The LSSVM solver solves the linear program that results from the application of the _Karush, Kuhn Tucker_ conditions on the LSSVM optimization problem.

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & 1^\intercal_v   \\ \hline
   1_v & K + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   y  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$


```scala
val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...

val kernelMatrix: DenseMatrix[Double] = ...

val initParam =  DenseVector.ones[Double](num_points+1)

val optimizer =	new LSSVMLinearSolver()

val alpha = optimizer.optimize(num_points,
	(kernelMatrix, DenseVector(data.map(_._2).toArray)),
	initParam)
```

### Committee Model Solver

The committee model solver aims to find the optimum values of weights applied to the predictions of a set of base models. The weights are calculated as follows.

$$
\alpha = \frac{C^{-1} \overrightarrow{1}}{\overrightarrow{1}^T C^{-1} \overrightarrow{1}}
$$

Where $C$ is the sample correlation matrix of errors for all combinations of the base models calculated on the training data.

```scala
val optimizer= new CommitteeModelSolver()
//Data Structure containing for each training point the following couple
//(predictions from base models as a vector, actual target)
val predictionsTargets: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val params = optimizer.optimize(num_points,
	predictionsTargets,
	DenseVector.ones[Double](num_of_models))
```
