docs/core/core_lssvm.md, before:

---
title: Least Squares Support Vector Machines
---

## LSSVM Regression

In case of LSSVM regression one solves (by applying the [KKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karush%E2%80%93Kuhn%E2%80%93Tucker_conditions) conditions) the following constrained optimization problem.

$$
	\begin{align}
		& \min_{w,b,e} \ \mathcal{J}_P(w,e) = \frac{1}{2}w^\intercal w + \gamma \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} e^2_k \\
		& y_k = w^\intercal \varphi(x) + b + e_k, \ k =1, \cdots, N
	\end{align}
$$

Leading to a predictive model of the form.

$$
	\begin{equation}
		y(x) = \sum_{k = 1}^{N}\alpha_k K(x, x_k) + b
	\end{equation}
$$

Where the values $\alpha \ \& \ b$ are the solution of

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & 1^\intercal_v   \\ \hline
   1_v & K + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   y  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$

Here _K_ is the $N \times N$ kernel matrix whose entries are given by $K_{kl} = \varphi(x_k)^\intercal\varphi(x_l), \ \ k,l = 1, \cdots, N$ and $I$ is the identity matrix of order $N$.

## LSSVM Classification

In case of LSSVM for binary classification one solves (by applying the [KKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karush%E2%80%93Kuhn%E2%80%93Tucker_conditions) conditions) the following constrained optimization problem.

$$
	\begin{align}
		& \min_{w,b,e} \ \mathcal{J}_P(w,e) = \frac{1}{2}w^\intercal w + \gamma \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} e^2_k \\
		& y_k[w^\intercal \varphi(x) + b] = 1 - e_k, \ k =1, \cdots, N
	\end{align}
$$

Leading to a classifier of the form.

$$
	\begin{equation}
		y(x) = sign \left[ \sum_{k = 1}^{N}\alpha_k K(x, x_k) + b \right]
	\end{equation}
$$

Where the values $\alpha \ \& \ b$ are the solution of

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & y^\intercal   \\ \hline
   y & \Omega + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   1_v  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$

Here $\Omega$ is the $N \times N$ matrix whose entries are given by

$$
\begin{align}
 \Omega_{kl} & = y_{k} y_{l} \varphi(x_k)^\intercal\varphi(x_l), \ \ k,l = 1, \cdots, N \\
             & = y_{k} y_{l} K(x_k, x_l)
\end{align}
$$

and $I$ is the identity matrix of order $N$.


```scala
// Create the training data set

val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val numPoints = data.length
val num_features = data.head._1.length

// Create an implicit vector field for the creation of the stationary
// radial basis function kernel

implicit val field = VectorField(num_features)
val kern = new RBFKernel(2.0)

//Create the model
val lssvmModel = new DLSSVM(data, numPoints, kern, modelTask = "regression")

//Set the regularization parameter and learn the model
model.setRegParam(1.5).learn()

```

Commit message:

Neural Stack API pages complete

docs/core/core_lssvm.md, after:

Least Squares Support Vector Machines are a modification of the classical Support Vector Machine, please see [Suykens et. al](http://www.amazon.com/Least-Squares-Support-Vector-Machines/dp/9812381511) for a complete background.

![lssvm-book](/images/cover_js_small.jpg)

## LSSVM Regression

In case of LSSVM regression one solves (by applying the [KKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karush%E2%80%93Kuhn%E2%80%93Tucker_conditions) conditions) the following constrained optimization problem.

$$
	\begin{align}
		& \min_{w,b,e} \ \mathcal{J}_P(w,e) = \frac{1}{2}w^\intercal w + \gamma \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} e^2_k \\
		& y_k = w^\intercal \varphi(x) + b + e_k, \ k =1, \cdots, N
	\end{align}
$$

Leading to a predictive model of the form.

$$
	\begin{equation}
		y(x) = \sum_{k = 1}^{N}\alpha_k K(x, x_k) + b
	\end{equation}
$$

Where the values $\alpha \ \& \ b$ are the solution of

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & 1^\intercal_v   \\ \hline
   1_v & K + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   y  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$

Here _K_ is the $N \times N$ kernel matrix whose entries are given by $K_{kl} = \varphi(x_k)^\intercal\varphi(x_l), \ \ k,l = 1, \cdots, N$ and $I$ is the identity matrix of order $N$.

## LSSVM Classification

In case of LSSVM for binary classification one solves (by applying the [KKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karush%E2%80%93Kuhn%E2%80%93Tucker_conditions) conditions) the following constrained optimization problem.

$$
	\begin{align}
		& \min_{w,b,e} \ \mathcal{J}_P(w,e) = \frac{1}{2}w^\intercal w + \gamma \frac{1}{2} \sum_{k = 1}^{N} e^2_k \\
		& y_k[w^\intercal \varphi(x) + b] = 1 - e_k, \ k =1, \cdots, N
	\end{align}
$$

Leading to a classifier of the form.

$$
	\begin{equation}
		y(x) = sign \left[ \sum_{k = 1}^{N}\alpha_k K(x, x_k) + b \right]
	\end{equation}
$$

Where the values $\alpha \ \& \ b$ are the solution of

$$
\begin{equation}
\left[\begin{array}{c|c}
   0  & y^\intercal   \\ \hline
   y & \Omega + \gamma^{-1} \mathit{I}
\end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{c}
   b    \\ \hline
   \alpha  
\end{array}\right] = \left[\begin{array}{c}
   0    \\ \hline
   1_v  
\end{array}\right]
\end{equation}
$$

Here $\Omega$ is the $N \times N$ matrix whose entries are given by

$$
\begin{align}
 \Omega_{kl} & = y_{k} y_{l} \varphi(x_k)^\intercal\varphi(x_l), \ \ k,l = 1, \cdots, N \\
             & = y_{k} y_{l} K(x_k, x_l)
\end{align}
$$

and $I$ is the identity matrix of order $N$.


```scala
// Create the training data set

val data: Stream[(DenseVector[Double], Double)] = ...
val numPoints = data.length
val num_features = data.head._1.length

// Create an implicit vector field for the creation of the stationary
// radial basis function kernel

implicit val field = VectorField(num_features)
val kern = new RBFKernel(2.0)

//Create the model
val lssvmModel = new DLSSVM(data, numPoints, kern, modelTask = "regression")

//Set the regularization parameter and learn the model
model.setRegParam(1.5).learn()

```
