## Platform Compatibility

Currently DynaML installs and runs on \*nix platforms, though it is possible to build the project on windows, running the generated .bat file might not work and one would need to resort to using the `java -jar` command.

### Pre-requisites

* sbt
* A modern HTML5 enabled browser (to view plots generated by Wisp)
* BLAS, LAPACK and ARPACK binaries for your platform. In case they are not installed, it is possible to disable this feature by commenting out (`//`) the section of the build.sbt file given below.

  ```scala
    "org.scalanlp" % "breeze-natives_2.11" % "0.11.2" % "compile",
  ```

!!! note
    
    **TensorFlow Nvidia GPU support**
    
    If you want to use Nvidia GPU acceleration when DynaML calls TensorFlow, you must
    build DynaML with a small modification to `project/Dependencies.scala`
    
    ```scala
    val gpuFlag: Boolean = true
    ```
    
    The rest of the procedure for installation remains the same as shown below. But
    in order for your GPU to be actually utilised, you must take care to confirm that.
    
     * Your Nvidia GPU is [compliant](https://www.geforce.com/hardware/technology/cuda/supported-gpus), 
       i.e. has a compute capability of atleast 4.1
     * Cuda v9.0 is installed on your system and its installation location 
       is added to `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` bash variable.
     * cuDNN v7 is installed on your system and is appended to `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`
     
     **Using user compiled TensorFlow**
     
     By default, DynaML uses the Tensorflow dynamic library bundled with TensorFlow Scala distribution,
     but it is possible for the user to build Tensorflow from source for their platform. In this 
     situation, you can make another modification to `project/Dependencies.scala`.
     
     
     ```scala
     val packagedTFFlag: Boolean = false
     ```
     
     In most applications, the bundled TensorFlow is adequate for user requirements, and since building it
     from source is a time consuming affair, its advisable for users to start with the bundled TensorFlow
     library and compile it themselves only if absolutely necessary.

## Steps

1. Clone this repository
2. Run the following.


    ```shell
    sbt
    ```

    The sbt shell will open

    ```shell
    [info] Loading project definition from ~/DynaML/project
    [info] Set current project to DynaML
    >
    ```

3. Build the source


    ```shell
    stage
    ```

4. After the project builds, exit from the sbt console and execute the DynaML start script from the bash shell. Make sure you have execute permissions on the DynaML start script.


    ```
    ./target/universal/stage/bin/dynaml
    ```

    You will get the following prompt.

    ```scala
    Welcome to DynaML v1.4.1-beta.3
    Interactive Scala shell for Machine Learning Research
    (Scala 2.11.8 Java 1.8.0_101)
    DynaML>
    ```

!!! tip
    **Using the install script**
    
    If you have already installed the [pre-requisites](/installation/installation/#pre-requisites), 
    you can use the `install.sh` to build DynaML. It will add the a symlink to the`dynaml` 
    executable in the `/usr/local/bin` directory. 
    
    You will need _sudo_ access for `install.sh` to run correctly.
    
    ```shell
    ./install.sh
    ```